hey guys my name is Chris due to
unforeseen circumstances I have been
unable to play on a real drum set for
the past almost a month and a half I
think so I haven't been able to play
drums for month or half and I think a
lot of guys struggle with the same thing
I think a lot of you guys don't have
access to drums and you have the same
problem that I've been experiencing for
the past month or half so I thought it
would be a good idea just to share my
ideas and not techniques but just my
ideas and kind of things that I try to
do to stay sharp and stay in practice
even though I don't have access to a
drum kit so the first thing that I do is
that I listen and I know that sounds
incredibly broad but basically what I do
is I just try and find inspirational
motivating drum clips lately I've been
really into Benny grab stuff I love
watching his videos it really inspires
me so the first thing that I do is
listening and what this also entails is
air drumming so putting headphones on
locking the door of your room to make
sure nobody walks in on you looking like
a madman but air drumming is really
important for me it's usually the first
step when I start jamming along to
covers that I might record I always just
like putting headphones on and air
drumming along to some songs that I
might want to cover it really makes you
feel like your plan a part of the band
especially if you've got a really good
imagination and I think in fact this is
muscle memory it gives you a good
workout if you get really into it so
what I really like to do is air drum as
well if I don't have access to anything
I just use this motion and if I have
access to drumsticks I'll just use the
actual drumsticks to do a drumming with
so if you don't have access to sticks
you can just do that but if you have
access to sticks then air drumming is
also really cool so the first thing that
I do like I said is that I listen and I
really try to keep my ears sharp even
arm away from the drums the second thing
I do is I try to see rhythmic potential
in everything so everything makes a
noise everything has a tone some tones
sound good some tones sound bad but I
think everything makes a sound and
before I could afford a drumset I had
this like practice bike with pillows on
it and I had two drumsticks and it made
sounds that didn't sound like a drum set
at all but it was rhythmic and it
definitely helped a lot played a big
role in like the first few months of my
playing so I'm just going to take that
idea and take it to ridiculous
portions and as you can see I've got
this drum set in front of me that isn't
really a drum set it's just tons of
things that make different sounds and we
mock them up and I'm just going to have
some fun but basically all I want to
illustrate is that if you if you're able
to see rhythmic potential in anything
then you'll be able to produce a rhythm
anywhere with anything so I'm just kind
of trying to install a new like just a
new perspective maybe to think about
things a little bit differently and try
to approach them a little differently so
I'm just going to play a little bit and
see how it sounds lastly this is what
probably most people have access to well
not most people I think many people have
access to a practice pad and some sticks
and a bass drum practice pad and so the
combination of these things actually
give you the capability of practicing
some really cool stuff what I've been
doing for the past month and off not
having access to an actual real live
awesome drumset is that I've been
playing on a DW practice anywhere kit
it's pretty much the same thing it's got
a few more pads but it's basically just
a bass drum practice pad and then a few
practice pads but what I've been doing
the things that I've been exercising is
mostly drills so I'm really focusing on
technique and the cool thing about just
having these things is you don't have
any other distractions so usually when
you're like practicing on the kit and
you really want to get your finger
technique down or wrist technique or you
want to work on ghost notes then you do
that for like five minutes and then you
get distracted and you go into your
favorite groove and then you get
distracted and you just play other stuff
so what this does it it really focuses
you because you have no other options
pretty much and so what I've been doing
is a lot of drills like I said so I've
been really practicing my wrists
especially my left wrist I really want
to get my singles up to speed so I've
been doing stuff like this just for like
long periods of time and I'd even do
like eight on one hand and then eight on
eight notes on one and eight notes on
the other hand just like boring drills
like that it really motivates you when
you do that for like a day or two in a
row and you see the results because
you're actually putting in the practice
time so it might be a little boring or
bit tedious to get through but the
results are incredible
if you focus like this so there's
actually a huge benefit not to not
having access to a kitten to being
forced to practice on these things so
you can really sharpen up your technique
I've been working on like I said wrists
what else have I been doing doubles I've
been working a lot of my doubles I'm not
going to play that because it's not as
smooth as I want it to be but I've been
practicing a lot of doubles a lot of
yuto's stuff a lot of heel toe stop
specially focusing on my left foot I
played a lot of hotels on the two pedals
so if you can get access to these things
I'm taking all these three lessons into
account listening thinking of everything
with a rhythmic potential whether it be
your disc at your job or that ridiculous
contraption that we built and maybe
getting a practice pad and even a kick
drum practice pad putting all these
three things together I think you can do
a lot of practicing and make a lot of
progression move forward aggressively
and falsely without a kit so you don't
need a kit it's not a deterrent drummers
usually have a lot of ingenuity so we're
able to do a lot with a little if we put
our minds to it so don't be upset if you
don't have a drum set you can still
practice and be
so those are three things I usually
focus on when I don't have access to a
kit and I don't want to suck because I
don't get to practice they really helped
me a lot to kind of stay on my game and
stay short and so I really hope you
enjoy these lessons I hope you can apply
them if you don't have a kit I hope to
help you I actually have a whole package
full of lessons covering everything from
how I learned how to play drums right
here are some my favourite falls grooves
grip basic technique and stuff it's
pretty much everything I know like I
said it's for the purpose method it's
actually on a really good special right
now so if you guys want to check out
more information about that you can just
take the link in the description box and
once again thanks for watching this I
really hope it means something to you
you guys have been asking for stuff like
this for a long time and I'm glad that I
get to tell you what I do when I don't
have access to my kids so just please
leave a comment and tell me what you
think of these lessons because this was
kind of weird and different and if you
appreciate it and I'll do more of these
and thanks for the support and thanks
for watching
you